# My Sql Notes

## Select In Detail

* Used to select any data form the database.

## Basic Syntax

* SELECT * FROM <Table-Name>

### DISTINCT

* Distinct means unique here so it returns the unique items.

### WHERE CLAUSE

* Clause means condition here.

* To define some conditions.

SELECT col1, col2 FROM table_name
WHERE conditions;

e.g

SELECT * FROM Student WHERE marks>= 100;

SELECT * FROM Student WHERE city = "Gondia";

## Using Operator in WHERE

* Arithmetic Operators : +(addition), -(substraction), *(multiplication), /(division), %(modulus).

* Comparison Operators : =(equals to ), !=(not equals to), >(greater than), <(less than), >=(greater than equals to ), <=(less than equals to).

* Logical Operators : And, OR , NOT , IN, BETWEEN, ALL, LIKE, ANY

* Bitwise Operators : ( Bitwise AND ), | ( Bitwise OR )

## LIMIT CLAUSE

* Sets an upper limit on number of(tuples) to be returned.

SELECT * FROM student LIMIT 3;

e.g SELECT col1, col2, FROM table_name LIMIT number;


## Order By Clause

* To Sort in ascending (ASC) or descending order (DESC)

SELECT * FROM Student 
ORDER BY city ASC;


## Aggregate Functions

* Aggregate Functions perform a calculation on a set of values, and return a single value.

* COUNT()
* MAX()
* MIN()
* SUM()
* AVG()

 e.g 
 
 SELECT MAX(marks) from students;

 ## Group By Clause

 * Groups rows that have the same values into summary rows. It collects data from multiple records and groups the result by one or more column.

 * Generally we use group by with some aggregation function.

 e.g 

 Count number of students in each city.

 SELECT city, COUNT(students)
 FROM student
 GROUP By city;

 ## Having Clause

 * Similar to where i.e applies some conditions on rows. Used whenwe want to apply any condition after grouping.

 * Group number of students in each city where max marks cross 90.

 e.g 
 
 SELECT count(name), city
 FROM student
 GROUP BY city
 HAVING max(marks) > 90;

 * General Order
 SELECT column(s)
 FROM table_name
 WHERE condition
 GROUP BY column(s)
 HAVING condition
 ORDER BY column(s) asc;