# My Sql Notes

## JOINS

* Join is used to combine rows from tow or more tables, based on a related column between them.

## TYPES OF JOINS (3 Types)

* Inner Join

- Returns records that have matching values i nboth tables.

e.g 

SELECT column(s)
FROM tableA
INNER JOIN tableB
ON tableA.col_name = tableB.col_name;

Student             Course
student_id name     student_id course
101        adam     102        english
102        bob      105        math 
103        casey    103         science

SELECT * 
FROM Student
INNER JOIN Course
ON Student.student_id = Course.student_id;

RESULT : 
student_id name course
102         bob   english
103         casey   science


* Outer Joins (3 Types)
  
  * Left Join
    - It returns all recoreds from the left table, and the matched records from the right table.

    e.g
    SELECT colmn(s)
    FROM tableA
    LEFT JOIN tableB
    ON tableA.col_name = tableB.col_name;
  
  * Right Join
    - Returns all records from the right table, and the matched records from the left table.

    e.g
    SELECT column(s)
    FROM tableA
    RIGHT JOIN tableB
    ON tableA.col_name = tableB.col_name;

  * Full Join
    - Returns all records when there is a match in either left or right table.

  - To perfrom Full Join on MySQL we use LEFT JOIN "UNION" RIGHT JOIN

    e.g
    SYNTAX

    SELECT * from  student
    LEFT JOIN course
    ON student.id = course.id
    UNION
    SELECT * from student
    RIGHT JOIN course
    ON student.id = course.id;

  * SELFT JOIN

  - It is a regular join but the table is joined with itself.

  e.g

  SELECT column(s)
  FROM tableA
  JOIN tableB
  ON tableA.col_name = tableB.col_name;

## UNION

  * UNIQUE is used to combine the result-set of two or more SELECT statements. Gives UNIQUE records.

  * To Use it:
    _ Every SELECT should have a same no.of columns.
    - Columns must have similar data types.
    - Columns in every SELECT should be in same order.

  e.g
  SELECT columns(s) FROM tableA
  UNION 
  SELECT column(s) FROM tableB

## UNION ALL

* Returns all the value with duplicates also.
